README.md, before:

# in-browser-style-linter
Do quick style checks on your page _after_ it renders, and _without leaving your browser_: 

1. Add settings. 
2. Run in-browser. [(Chrome/Firefox/IE)](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter#step-2-set-up-your-browser-to-run-the-js-code)
3. See red buttons.

Or follow this demo: https://youtu.be/eK5jMvivitQ

Side step the worry of whether your style will be overridden, or whether you're accurately testing/simulating the computed styles; make use of the fact that the browser already renders the styles that the user sees.

## STEP 1: To add a setting, edit [this part](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/linter.js#L3) of the JS code:
```js
// Enter your desired settings here:
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a', // CSS selector
        property:'color', // CSS property to check
        expectedValues:['red','rgb(88, 96, 105)'], // acceptable expected values of property
        // contains:true // OPTIONAL: boolean to say actual value can at least contain the expected value
        // innerHTML:'Some innerHTML text.' // OPTIONAL: you can be more specific than CSS selectors
    }
];
```
to something like this (try it on https://www.google.com):
```js
// Enter your desired settings here:
var settings = [
{
    s:'a',
    p:'font-family',
    v:'avenir',
    i:'About'
},
{
    s:'a.gb_d',
    p:'font-family',
    v:'avenir',
    c:true
},
{
    s:'.gLFyf.gsfi',
    p:'color',
    v:['#eee','rgb(88, 96, 105)','#3e3e3e'],
},
];
```

(For details, see [more info](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter#more-info-click-to-expand).)

## STEP 2: Set up your browser to run the JS code:
* Chrome extension: [In-Browser Style Linter](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/in-browser-style-linter/mopnkclaipjghhmneijljnljeimjahfc)
* Chrome: [snippets](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/snippets)
* Firefox: [Scratchpad](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Scratchpad)
* Internet Explorer: F12 > Console > paste the whole code into the terminal (paste after the ">" symbol on the bottom) > Ctrl+Enter (or hit run)

## STEP 3: You'll see ugly red buttons, like this:

![image](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/example-screenshot.png)

Hovering over the error button shows the expected and actual values. See this demo: https://youtu.be/eK5jMvivitQ


# More info: (click to expand)

<details>
<summary><strong>Basics ("SVP")</strong></summary>

Minimal required info:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a', // a CSS selector like 'div span a:hover'
        property:'color', // a CSS property
        value:'red' // the expected value after page render
    }
];
```

All parameters have short forms to let you save on keystrokes. Here's an equivalent to the example above:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a', // s is for selector
        p:'color', // p is for property
        v:'red' // v (or ev) is for expected value
    }
];
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>c is for Contains Value</strong></summary>

To relax the matching of the property value to simply "contain" the expected value, set the optional parameter to true:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'background',
        value:'#333',
        contains:true // would not flag '#333 url("img_tree.gif") no-repeat fixed center' as error
    }
];
```

Alternatively:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a',
        p:'background',
        v:'#333',
        c:true // would not flag '#333 url("img_tree.gif") no-repeat fixed center' as error
    }
];
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Multiple Allowable Values = []</strong></summary>

To specify several allowable expected values, use an array:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'color',
        value:['red', 'rgb(88, 96, 105)']
    }
];
```

This is also compatible with the "contains" option (see above).

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>i Can Be More Specific with innerHTML</strong></summary>

To specify elements that have a specific innerHTML (in addition to the CSS selector), set the optional parameter value:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'color',
        innerHTML:'Some innerHTML text.', // check the color of <a> tags with this innerHTML
        value:'rgb(88, 96, 105)'
    }
];
```

Alternatively:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a',
        p:'color',
        i:'Some innerHTML text.', // check the color of <a> tags with this innerHTML
        v:'rgb(88, 96, 105)'
    }
];
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Modify Values in One Place</strong></summary>

You can use variables to update properties in one place instead of updating the whole settings array. For example:

```js
var myColour = 'blue'; // you edit the value here, just one place
var settings = [
    {
        s:'button.btn.btn-info',
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'a.some-fancy-button',
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'label.consistent-styling-ftw'
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    }
];
```

And avoid situations like this:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'button.btn.btn-info',
        p:'background',
        v:'blue' // edit here
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'a.some-fancy-button',
        p:'background',
        v:'blue' // and here
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'label.consistent-styling-ftw'
        p:'background',
        v:'lightblue' // oops I forgot, where else do I have to change this?
    }
];
```
</details>

# Want to understand how the code works?

## In my mind, the key line of code is this:

```js
var elements = document.querySelectorAll(selector + ':not(.in-browser-linter-button)');
```

## If you want more details:

I recommend you start with reading the standalone snippet: https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/linter.js

History alert: Pure JavaScript. No jQuery. This was originally just a snippet I'd copy and paste into Chrome DevTools.

## Conceptual data flow in the [chrome-extension](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/tree/master/chrome-extension) folder:

```js
manifest.json -> popup.html (the settings popup) -> popup.js -> main.js -> (the summary popup)
```

# Like this project?

Another Chrome extension in the works: https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-test-automator

Commit message:

add links to template, something I tutored, +1 old

README.md, after:

# in-browser-style-linter
Do quick style checks on your page _after_ it renders, and _without leaving your browser_: 

1. Add settings. 
2. Run in-browser. [(Chrome/Firefox/IE)](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter#step-2-set-up-your-browser-to-run-the-js-code)
3. See red buttons.

Or follow this demo: https://youtu.be/eK5jMvivitQ

Side step the worry of whether your style will be overridden, or whether you're accurately testing/simulating the computed styles; make use of the fact that the browser already renders the styles that the user sees.

## STEP 1: To add a setting, edit [this part](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/linter.js#L3) of the JS code:
```js
// Enter your desired settings here:
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a', // CSS selector
        property:'color', // CSS property to check
        expectedValues:['red','rgb(88, 96, 105)'], // acceptable expected values of property
        // contains:true // OPTIONAL: boolean to say actual value can at least contain the expected value
        // innerHTML:'Some innerHTML text.' // OPTIONAL: you can be more specific than CSS selectors
    }
];
```
to something like this (try it on https://www.google.com):
```js
// Enter your desired settings here:
var settings = [
{
    s:'a',
    p:'font-family',
    v:'avenir',
    i:'About'
},
{
    s:'a.gb_d',
    p:'font-family',
    v:'avenir',
    c:true
},
{
    s:'.gLFyf.gsfi',
    p:'color',
    v:['#eee','rgb(88, 96, 105)','#3e3e3e'],
},
];
```

(For details, see [more info](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter#more-info-click-to-expand).)

## STEP 2: Set up your browser to run the JS code:
* Chrome extension: [In-Browser Style Linter](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/in-browser-style-linter/mopnkclaipjghhmneijljnljeimjahfc)
* Chrome: [snippets](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/snippets)
* Firefox: [Scratchpad](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Scratchpad)
* Internet Explorer: F12 > Console > paste the whole code into the terminal (paste after the ">" symbol on the bottom) > Ctrl+Enter (or hit run)

## STEP 3: You'll see ugly red buttons, like this:

![image](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/example-screenshot.png)

Hovering over the error button shows the expected and actual values. See this demo: https://youtu.be/eK5jMvivitQ


# More info: (click to expand)

<details>
<summary><strong>Basics ("SVP")</strong></summary>

Minimal required info:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a', // a CSS selector like 'div span a:hover'
        property:'color', // a CSS property
        value:'red' // the expected value after page render
    }
];
```

All parameters have short forms to let you save on keystrokes. Here's an equivalent to the example above:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a', // s is for selector
        p:'color', // p is for property
        v:'red' // v (or ev) is for expected value
    }
];
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>c is for Contains Value</strong></summary>

To relax the matching of the property value to simply "contain" the expected value, set the optional parameter to true:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'background',
        value:'#333',
        contains:true // would not flag '#333 url("img_tree.gif") no-repeat fixed center' as error
    }
];
```

Alternatively:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a',
        p:'background',
        v:'#333',
        c:true // would not flag '#333 url("img_tree.gif") no-repeat fixed center' as error
    }
];
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Multiple Allowable Values = []</strong></summary>

To specify several allowable expected values, use an array:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'color',
        value:['red', 'rgb(88, 96, 105)']
    }
];
```

This is also compatible with the "contains" option (see above).

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>i Can Be More Specific with innerHTML</strong></summary>

To specify elements that have a specific innerHTML (in addition to the CSS selector), set the optional parameter value:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        selector:'a',
        property:'color',
        innerHTML:'Some innerHTML text.', // check the color of <a> tags with this innerHTML
        value:'rgb(88, 96, 105)'
    }
];
```

Alternatively:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'a',
        p:'color',
        i:'Some innerHTML text.', // check the color of <a> tags with this innerHTML
        v:'rgb(88, 96, 105)'
    }
];
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Modify Values in One Place</strong></summary>

You can use variables to update properties in one place instead of updating the whole settings array. For example:

```js
var myColour = 'blue'; // you edit the value here, just one place
var settings = [
    {
        s:'button.btn.btn-info',
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'a.some-fancy-button',
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'label.consistent-styling-ftw'
        p:'background',
        v:myColour
    }
];
```

And avoid situations like this:

```js
var settings = [
    {
        s:'button.btn.btn-info',
        p:'background',
        v:'blue' // edit here
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'a.some-fancy-button',
        p:'background',
        v:'blue' // and here
    },
    ...
    {
        s:'label.consistent-styling-ftw'
        p:'background',
        v:'lightblue' // oops I forgot, where else do I have to change this?
    }
];
```
</details>

# Want to understand how the code works?

## In my mind, the key line of code is this:

```js
var elements = document.querySelectorAll(selector + ':not(.in-browser-linter-button)');
```

## If you want more details:

I recommend you start with reading the standalone snippet: https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/blob/master/linter.js

History alert: Pure JavaScript. No jQuery. This was originally just a snippet I'd copy and paste into Chrome DevTools.

## Conceptual data flow in the [chrome-extension](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-style-linter/tree/master/chrome-extension) folder:

```js
manifest.json -> popup.html (the settings popup) -> popup.js -> main.js -> (the summary popup)
```

# Like this project?

A Chrome extension template repo: [chrome-extension-template](https://github.com/hchiam/chrome-extension-template)

A Chrome extension project I helped tutor and contribute to: [Habit-Tracker-Extension](https://github.com/marko-polo-cheno/Habit-Tracker-Extension)

Another Chrome extension in the works _(update: now old)_: [in-browser-test-automator](https://github.com/hchiam/in-browser-test-automator)
